[Music]
hello everyone I'm Gilbert Cruz editor
of the New York Times book review and
this is our podcast for the next many
months we'll be highlighting great
conversations from our decade plus
archive we're planning a new iteration
of this podcast and as a result we're
going to take a while to figure out what
that might sound like until then we hope
you enjoy these trips down memory lane
[Music]
sidartha Mukerji is a physician a
professor of medicine and a writer of
big sweeping science books his first the
Fantastic the Emperor of all maladies a
biography of cancer won the piter prize
this month he'll release his latest work
the song of the cell an exploration of
medicine and the new
human in May 2016 sidartha spoke with
this podcast about his book The Gene and
intimate history
Sid thanks for being here my pleasure
thank you for having me let's start off
with your last book um the Emperor of
all Melody is one of our best books of
the year when it came out in
2010 continues to sell had a long
afterlife what was the aftermath of that
book like when I wrote Emperor I didn't
know what to think about or how to think
about who would read that I wanted
everyone to read the book I also thought
that only my mother would read the book
um you know it felt as if I was in this
kind of limbo between um between
reaching out to a wider audience but
writing a 600 page book on cancer its
history and its future I mean you could
say to yourself if you were in in the
right-minded frame of mind that no one
would ever read that book but obviously
it took on a life of its own and has
continued to do so um with the film with
Ken Burns it's just been unbelievable to
watch people respond and read um
something that's that serious and and
helpful and how did you get from cancer
to this book so this book three strands
uh come together in this book one strand
is personal the personal strand is that
you know I I was thinking a lot as I as
I mentioned in the book I thinking a lot
about illness in my family mental
illness in particular schizophrenia
bipolar disease in my family this was
the elephant in my childhood uh room I
was always thinking about what that
meant um the more I thought about
disease ill
um the more I came back to that question
of of inheritance what do we inherit
what do our families give to us how much
of it is genetic how much of it is
environmental um so that was one strand
did this also have to do with being a
father as well and sort of and it was
really it was really brought fully home
when my two daughters were born and
thinking about the future um you know
again what do you pass on what is
likeness the ancient question of what is
likeness uh was was very much part of it
the the second strand um and it comes up
later in the book was that at the same
time in my lab we were learning uh
techniques that we'd gotten from other
scientists um very young techniques 3
four years old to manipulate the human
genome um in a way that's become so
fasile um we were making genetic changes
in cells in stem cells in fact in a way
we couldn't do six or seven months ago
the technology was profound I could go
to a researcher in my lab and say can
you change that Gene in that cell and
she or he would say yes I can I you know
I'll get back two in two weeks or 3
weeks that idea for a researcher is so
powerful um but of course it opens up a
whole Hornet's Nest of questions and the
third was again it was it came out of
cancer so I was also treating cancer
patients and I kept thinking to myself
you know cancer is an abnormality of
genes it's a cell where genes are
mutated if that's the case then what's
normaly how do how what makes a cell
normal how what makes us what keeps us
normal so in a way this book also ties
That strand so it's it's like a prequel
to The Emperor B Mel I was going to ask
you if it's a prequel because James
Glick in his review of it is a very much
a prequel I mean you know you you can
only understand abnormaly that on the
template of the normal we know that
historically we know that the the the
cancer Genome Project was was built on
the shoulders of the Human Genome
Project it gets very little mention in
the emper malies where the cancer where
cancer is the focus but absolutely it's
a prequel it it it deals deals with
issues that are reflected um in their
kind of doppelganger sense in in Emperor
how is um structuring this book and the
process of writing it different from uh
emperor of all maladies this was in some
ways a harder book to write because it's
a the structure is a little inverted in
an emperor you have a lot of desire for
getting out of the kind of the the
Wormhole of cancer and then you finally
discover the science in this book it's
it's inverted you have to go through
some science for us to understand the
future um but all of a sudden when you
arm yourself with with with all of that
understanding with that history you can
begin to discuss really complicated and
important things like what does the word
race mean what does gender mean
genetically how much is identity genetic
versus environmental um you know what
does it mean what does illness mean so
the structure was a little inverted on
one hand and and that's that's one piece
but perhaps just as importantly this
book is even more personal than temper
um it begins very much it's very much in
the in the story of my family it's very
honest in Parts it was hard to write in
Parts um were you worried about that in
terms of what would your family think
about the book and um I worry about it
still um it's not over yet it's not over
yet um but I wanted to maintain that
sense of honesty um my family most of my
families read it now it took some
healing and some thinking to be able to
get uh beyond the uh Beyond on the kind
of the invasion of privacy but they were
and are very generous about it some of
the family members you write about are
living in India they are and culturally
I wonder is the um sort of acceptance
and thinking around mental illness in a
similar places here or is it it's very
very different culturally I think um
it's important to make that distinction
and be respectful of it on one hand of
course it's also more hidden away um
more stigmatized but on the other hand
because family structures are are more
cohesive um and more important um still
people live in multif family homes in
parts of India um they also create a web
um of support around uh people with
mental illness or any illness for that
matter it's a two-edged sword um or it's
a two-way street as it were there's a
there's a bit of both it struck me um an
emperor of Mal all maladies um that the
history of it there was a long period in
which people basically understood
nothing about cancer and then you have
very rapid Discovery and understanding
and experimentation and it seems a
similar kind of trajectory with with the
gene absolutely I mean and that's
because the both of the books go into
questions that we've sought to answer
for a very long time in Emperor the
question was very clear what is cancer
and how are we going to treat it in the
future in gene the question is who are
we um how do we know how do we know the
code that makes us um how do we know how
to define ourselves with respect to that
idea uh how do we know what units of
likeness are um you know these are
questions that we've grappled with for
centuries and all of a sudden you know a
monk in in Czechoslovakia or the Czech
Republic breaks that um that egg as it
were and finds um a whole series of
Cosmos inside it and that's the story
that launches the gene in both books you
these are narrative non-fiction you sort
of you you um weave the science into a
story and neither one of course has an
ending so how did you figure out okay
here I'm going to just draw the line
it's going to it's going to end here
even though obviously the research is
ongoing well I try to bring people up to
the precipice of technology that is
today but what's important is I mean I
say this in Emperor 2 you know it's not
the content that's uh the content will
change we will know different things
about cancer we'll know different things
about genetics we'll know different
things about ourselves and genes but
many of the forms will remain the same
and by that I mean you know the desire
to change things in in our likeness the
desire to alleviate illness through
science and technology and most
importantly the history of eugenics
that's in the book I mean that's not
going to go away that is permanent I
mean that's an interesting difference
too I think between the two books in
that when you think about the future of
cancer research it seems like it's all
to the good you know it's we're all
aiming to cure cancer with the future of
genetic research there's a lot more
ambiguity in there and things that
frighten people with Eugenics with uh
you know this whole idea of designer
genes with was that difficult to I mean
it was difficult territory to navigate
because you know again the the ending
wasn't you know this is not a this is
not a villain meets Hero book um it is
uh we meet ourselves book and obviously
we meet the parts of ourselves that are
heroic and the parts of ourselves which
are prone to become despicable and we
know that it's this is a book in which
you can reflect um on what has happened
in the past and what might happen in the
future it's a harder book for that
reason to write but in some ways it's an
easier book to read because you have
more familiarity with the questions you
it's it's you you understand the
questions more viscerally um you know
what does it mean what would happen to
me if I wanted to change myself or my
identity through genetic means it's a
question that becomes very very personal
I don't want to get too much into the
detail of the substance of the book um
but just to get at one key question um
which is what is a gene and at what
point did we discover there is this
thing the gene well the the funny story
is we we discovered um the gene mendal
um really discovered the idea that um
hereditary information is is carried in
discrete uh pieces he didn't know what
it was he didn't have any idea what DNA
all of this came later but he figured
out that this information is discrete
it's carried in packets like atoms uh it
can't be broken down it doesn't blend it
doesn't go away but it moves from one
generation to the next in these in this
kind of packet form eventually we
scientists discovered that these these
were actually carried in DNA for the
most part um there's a genetic code and
that code works by uh actualizing all
that information but that was really
mle's main Discovery it's interesting
that you talk about packets and packets
of code because I think when people are
explaining the very basics of the
internet they use those same exact ter
well and you know I I use this analogy
in the beginning of the book is that
that that the gene the atom and the bite
are the three most dangerous ideas of
the of of our century and they share
this whole this whole commonality which
is that they are all describe
indivisible packets of information and
you can use that um to control things
you can use the the idea of the atom to
understand what matter looks like what
matter is and thereby control matter in
a way that you couldn't if you didn't
know that the atom existed another term
that's I think very fraught and that
people don't necessarily know what the
meaning of it is is epigenetics what is
epigenetics and and why is it so
controversial so it's controversial
mainly because people don't know what
the meaning of the term is and I think
in some ways lots of scientists I think
this is probably the most constructive
thing they've said for now it's probably
best to sort of let let the term go away
for a little bit um rather than getting
confused about it the the central idea
is that epigenetics is an attempt to
answer a question so it's best to go
back to the question the question is the
following the question is epigenesis
which is how does an organism emerge out
of an embryo so just State the problem
very clearly you have from the same cell
from the same genome you made in your
body um a brain cell a neuron in your
brain and you made a blood cell they
don't look like each other and yet they
have for the most part the same genome
how did it how could the same genome
give rise to two such different looking
cells so the answer to that question is
that even though the genome is the same
the way the genome's used in one cell
versus the other cell um is different
it's a little bit like saying you know
if you have a master score in an
orchestra you know one person could play
that or that Master score very fast and
get one kind of music out of it you
could take that same Orchestra and put
it in another context take out some
parts someone would play some part
slowly other parts very long and you get
a very different sounding piece that's
what the genome does and so that allows
us to State the question we now know how
that happens it happens because there
are um proteins they're called
transcription factors they sort of
conduct the the the master score they're
the conductors of the genome and they're
different there's a different conductor
in your blood cell there a different
conductor in your brain cell and they
begin to recruit other things other
marks other proteins and this Cascade is
ultimately ultimately causes the
difference between cells now people have
assigned the word epigenetic to
different parts of this puzzle
but the question we trying to get us is
that's the solution to the puzzle it's a
question that we're trying to solve not
words that we're trying to make up okay
very different question but I think an
equally challenging puzzle and a little
bit more of a personal question which is
I I have to know how do you do it
because you personally you are an
oncologist you teach at Columbia you
have a clinical and research I have both
yeah okay and you wrote this book so
just explain how does that work well I
just I I took some time out I focused on
you know I see patients in a very
limited cap class I see them one day a
week um I took some time out and I
concentrated on the book and I wrote
mostly at night I came back and I wrote
every night which time like how did how
did that work I'm very curious my Prime
hour begins at about 8:00 at night and
goes into about 1: or 2 in the morning
and that's when I get the most work done
I have to tell you the way these books
got written and this is goes into my own
method is that I think of them as uh
knitted stories or a web of stories and
that really Rel lack is the burden it's
not like I'm trying to handle an epic
topic and wrestle it down to the ground
but instead if I can just knit Story
upon story individual upon individual
piece upon piece together the book will
get done and I keep telling myself over
and over again that if I could just do
that the rest of it would fall into
place and it does I mean that's the
power of Storytelling and is it going to
be relaxing to go back to like full-time
medicine for a while immensely relaxing
the only person perhaps will be relaxed
just to go back to being an oncologist
yeah well I love doing it and I I I
enjoy doing it and you know it's going
to be a while before I write another
book all right Sedar muker thank you so
much for being here my
[Music]
pleasure for our second conversation we
turn to the novelist Kate Atkinson her
new book shrines of gity also out this
month is set in London after the first
world war in October 2018 she spoke to
former book review editor Pamela Paul
about spy novel
transcription I'm thrilled to have in
the studio here with me the brilliant
novelist Kate Atkinson author of nine
novels is it now 10 or 11 even don't
know 11 novels approximately 11 novels
including the great Jackson Brody series
and her latest novel transcription Kate
thanks so much for being here oh it's
great to be here so tell us about
transcription it's um set in two time
frames 1940 1950 and sent us around a
girl called Juliet Armstrong who in 1940
is 18 and she's smart but she's naive
she's very art she's a clever girl who's
slightly Out of Water she's just been
bereaved so that has a big cast on her
character we meet her again in 1950 when
she's 28 and she's a producer at the BBC
and she's a a different person still
smart but now she is very cynical I
think and she's been through the war and
she's been through several experiences
that occur in the book obviously that
have shaped how she is now so in 1940
she's recruited reluctantly by MI5 she
doesn't want to join because she knows
that it will be clerical and it will be
boring and she gives one of those
interviews you know when you don't want
a job so you give her very bad interview
so she lies throughout because she is a
pathological liar but in fact it counts
against her because she's being
interviewed by MI5 so a liar is a good
things so she is recruited and she does
do an incredibly tedious job and then
she is uh moved on to do something might
be more exciting this is your third
novel in a row that's kind of taken
place in this same sort of London World
War II Blitz era period the first life
after life then a God in Ruins why what
was the attraction I know you in your
earlier novels pre Jackson Brody you
also had some I should have some more
for me this is not a war novel it's just
I was so intrigued by the the real story
that the plot is Loosely based on that
it had to be of necessity set during the
war because it's about MI5 in in the
days of the war but it's the phony War
so it's a very different I don't know if
you know that phrase in America but it's
June 1940 when nothing appears to have
happened so the British haven't been
bombed they haven't bombed anywh France
hasn't fallen Dunkirk hasn't happened so
it's a time of much more paranoia and
tension and people not sure what will
happen so in fact the British government
thought there was going to be a massive
gas attack which is why you see everyone
carrying their gas masks around and I I
actually forgot to give anyone a gas
mask in this book to me it wasn't about
rationing and you know oh you know all
of that Blitz Spirit it was about this
particular story but it has to happen in
the war so I'm very casual about the war
actually I don't really go into any
great detail it's not it's always sort
of burbling in the background just in
the background in many ways yeah but so
if it's not a war novel what to you is
it is it a spy novel it's just a novel
to
me I'm the person who has to refuse
genre categorization
so I think to me when I'm writing a
novel it's a novel and then it's
everyone else's job to say oh she's
written a spy novel or she's written
this or that apparently scence Life
After Life is science fiction partly a
science fiction novel surpris yeah
having read the novel I didn't realize
it it's true that when when I read Life
After Life I thought it was such an
original conceit just the whole
structure of it with the lead character
who is sort of constantly reborn
occasionally taking with her bits of
Knowledge from the previous life
occasionally maybe not necessarily and
then dies in a variety of of
circumstances sort of making her way
further along in her life I thought it
was so original so I asked uh my husband
who has read a lot more science fiction
than I have have you heard of this
before has this been done before because
he's fond of sort of saying oh you know
no that was done way back in the 1940s
and everything but he hadn't so
apparently it was a very original
science fiction story I I've not read
any science fiction I don't think so I
wasn't being unconsciously influenced to
me it was just to me time travel isn't
Science Fiction it's just what a lot of
writers do because they can and you
can't do it in real life you know we're
on for a one of a better word a journey
and it only ends one place and that's
not a good place but you know in the
novel you can you can experiment with
what how things would be in a different
dimension I think it's more like quantum
physics than science fiction not that I
understand a word of quantum physics you
mentioned earlier that this novel
transcription takes place in two time
periods but it does begin a bit later on
I always forget that there's a third
time period which is 1981 which bookends
the whole the whole book but it's not
you know it's not experimenting with
time or Messing about with time as
people are always saying to me you know
you mess about with the time I mess
about with time but this is it's it's
just very structural there are two time
periods oh three three time periods and
you know there's nothing fancy about
that well to go back to Life After Life
just for a moment and that question of
time and where did you get that idea of
having this character constantly I for
years I had wanted to write a a novel or
even a story called parallel lives in
which someone you know it's a bit like
Wolf's Orlando but this woman is born as
a woman the next time she's born as a
man and then she's born as a tree and
then she's born as a table whatever but
that struck me as really not working
very well but I've been waiting to write
a war novel I've been waiting to be
ready as a writer to write a war novel
and somehow the two clicked that you
know this would be about the blitz but
it would also be about being reborn
again and again but as as Ursula not as
a table or a tree or whatever so it just
kind of I remember being at lunch with
my Publishers and they said um so can
you give us an idea about the next book
they're always very you know tiptoe
about can give us an idea and I said
well there's this girl and she's born
and she dies and she's born and she dies
and she's born and she dies and she's
born and she dies in eitm and then she
kills Hitler and they just look at me
and I could see them thinking we can't
sell
[Laughter]
not to try to categorize your novel yet
again cuz it's it's it's not a World War
II novel it's not necessarily just
historical fiction but it is in certain
ways a kind of spy story yeah it is and
I didn't I mean I knew right from the
beginning I was dealing with Espionage
because I was dealing with MI5 files
with the basis for for the book but I
still didn't really think of it as an
Espionage novel because I've never I've
read a couple of lares but I haven't
read spy novels so I wasn't working
within those param but I knew what they
would be like so I knew that there was
lots of fun things to be had the dead
letter drops and you know all of the
mysterious Communications and but I
wasn't really consciously again writing
a spy novel I sometimes think I'm not
really aware of what kind of book I'm
writing until I finish sometimes I get
to the end and I think oh that's why I
had that title or yes now I am here at
the place I thought I might get to but
there's there's a lot of very
unconscious creativity goes on well the
the the idea of spy novels the idea of
Juliet as a liar pathological liar as
you described her the idea of Shifting
identities for women at wellb to all
kind of feel very related that this is a
person Juliet who's in the process of
kind of figuring out who she is and and
moving in and out of various identities
both literally when she becomes an
actual spy for a period and then in
other ways as well was that one of the
attractions of writing about a spy well
I think I will say that all novels are
about identity one way or another and so
in this case you're trying to rather
than find her identity I think she's
trying to mask her identity but then
she's also surrounded by an entire cast
of characters who are doing the same and
I wanted to write about ambiguity and
that's a difficult thing to write about
but also that means shifting identity as
well and I wanted to feel myself as well
as the reader that when I got to the end
I didn't know who anybody was and I
didn't know what side anybody was on
well there's a great line that you have
one of your give to one of your
characters in the novel that you a good
spy is someone where you never know you
know his side there on yes and I think
that was that was quite a driving
sentence because I wrote that quite
early on and I thought it's important
for me too to be in the in the fog
because the fog is a metaphor that's
used a lot because that way I'm not
thinking aha so I'm going to make you do
this and you do that and that's all
going to be reveal because I wanted to
get to the end and feel that nothing had
been revealed that you think
everything's been revealed and then you
realize nothing's been revealed which
could be very frustrating for a reader
of course then it is revealed but I
definitely do not want to do any plot
spoilers here with this novel which is
very twisty but what I thought was
perhaps the most interesting thing is
that there is a reveal at the end and
yet it's very much open to the reader up
to the reader to then think about well
how did that work in the novel as I went
along unsuspecting and also the morality
of it because there's a certain morality
involved in that you know in what what
everyone turns out to be and it's a you
know I think everyone in the book is
just following their own path were you
also inspired to kind of shed light and
and give a backstory and and Central
story to many of the characters who are
often overlooked in what have become
kind of familiar Stories the Spy novel
The World War II novel and yet here
rather than focus on the kind of head
spy um the the Godfree Toby character we
are focused on the transcriptionist
behind the scenes and rather than focus
on all of the men we're focusing on the
women and and and another character
who's often used or has been used in the
past as a kind of source of an easy
villain or a source for humor which is a
gay character which you weave in here in
a very for a period novel in it what
feels like a very fresh way well you
know being homosexual in 1940 in Britain
is absolutely not something you're going
to reveal but of course it makes you a
good spy because you're very good at
keeping secrets and jul yet herself is
completely baffled by his attitude to
her because she you know she's 18 and
she's an English girl who's been at an
English girl school and who has never
come across this concept at all so
that's extreme naivity and it's quite
touching their relationship I think
there in the end you know they have an
understanding and and in 1950 we see a
little bit more of how you can you can
start to reveal perhaps your true nature
but you're still on the wrong side of
the law so it is about the novel in a
way it's about truth because it's
whether you know you you're going to be
true to yourself or whether you have to
maintain a different kind of Truth in
order to exist I'm going to ask you a
question both because I'm curious about
the answer but also because I want to
ask you about a specific review of this
novel do you read reviews of your own
books I end up reading reviews no matter
how um horrified I am by the concept I
always end up reading them and even
someone will thrust a review and say
this is a great review and we read it
and then there's a butt in the middle
and I'm sure every writer is the same
it's only the butt that you remember
right the caveat yeah everything else is
just meaningless well I won't focus on
the to be sure paragraph of this review
but there was a review this week in the
New Yorker art that I thought made some
interesting points I'm not sure if
you've read it yes I have and and I'm
puzzled by that review and there's many
points in that review and I wanted to
say hang on well here's her opportunity
well it caus me some kind of matron of
English literature which I found quite
insulting I think maton is such a a
dubious word to apply to a woman I don't
know if it has a different Concept in
but as if I'm or or as if I'm even the
Midwife giving you know shelter to these
supposedly more avanguard writers I
think I'm a very avanguard writer and I
think I disguise it very well and I
think it's very curious that he sees me
as an English traditionalist because I'm
not an English traditionalist and I'm
wondering how he's come to that
conclusion I've got lots of things to
say about this but I leave it to you
because you want to quote something at
me well I I mean it also raised
questions for me the review was by
Jonathan D and I thought it was a I
should make clear very favorable review
that he yes indeed I'm just focusing on
the butat exactly so that's your job
I'll focus on the good points I'm not
sure that I necessarily see the
comparison um he you know contrast to
you with Rachel kusk another cont very
strange contrast to make but I think he
sees us at two ends of the spectrum see
and I don't see that at all because I I
I agree with your point that I I think
that you're very experimental in your
work I mean I thought life after says I
don't write beautiful sentences which I
think is do write beautiful sentences I
want you to read beautiful sentences
later but I I'm going to actually read
CU I mark up I marked up the copy with
this is not a beautiful sentence but I
love your descriptions which I find so
clever and apt and original and this was
describing a character in a cafe and you
wrote like many in meres he had the
shabby air of the postwar European
diaspora there was a Rish look to him
too as if he had been put together from
leftovers he could have been sent from
booking to play one of the dispossessed
and it goes on it just keeps getting
better so on that point I disagree um
that's not a beautiful sentence but it's
a great one or a great few sentences
Jonathan Dean in this review in the New
Yorker when he was comparing you with
Rachel kusk he was saying that you still
believe in plot um which I'm glad for
and I'm curious if you if you start from
plot or if you start from character or
if there's a how important plot is to
you when you're writing I start from
structure and structure is different
from plot I think structure is the bones
that plot is the flesh too as it were
because uh if I have structure then it's
so much easier to move around in the
book but plot yes plot and character
which are strangely old-fashioned seen
as strangely oldfashioned non- avanguard
things which is I'm curious about
because okay there are writers writing
who are not fixated on plot and
character but then that's true 100 years
ago when you know or you know Gard Stein
wasn't obsessed with plot and character
so you know that's that that argument
about experimentalism always annoys me
slightly because there you know the
novel in itself is experimental but I
love plot and character and I know that
every reader loves plot and character
too and there's it's there is nothing
wrong with plot and I I am curious that
he sees that as a you know that and I
also think Rachel has plot she's not
plotless in her novels I think it's just
a way of seeing more than anything for
our listeners would you read a passage
from transped to you this is a scene
that takes place quite early on in
Juliet's career as a spy when she's
still a humble typist and perigrine
Gibbons is her boss and she does have a
thing for Perry it has to be said so
when He suggests that they have an
outing she's thinking that this is going
to be a
seduction which it isn't but they drove
to the Hamilton Valley where they
swapped the comforting warmth of the
car's interior for a chilly River Bank
it's still only April For Heaven's Sake
she thought but Perry seemed insensible
to weather although his layers of Tweed
must be keeping him warmer than her own
Ensemble a rather light coat thin
sweater in her best skirt not to mention
her good pair of stockings and smart
shoes for she had been expecting to be
viewing the landscape from the windows
of the car not to find herself standing
in the middle of it Countryside was more
of a concept for Juliet than a
reality otus he whispered spreading a
tarpoon sheet on the riverbank sir had
he said Otter Not A seduction then time
rolled by very slowly very damply very
coldly Juliet wondered if waiting for
the otter was perhaps part of her
training in some way surveillance
perhaps patience she did need training
and patience she knew that and it did
feel strangely like an undercover
Mission as they sat Breathless is still
on the river bank waiting for a little
family of otter to show themselves he
glanced at her when the first one
appeared and flashed her a delighted
smile he really did have a nice smile
his whole face changed and he became a
man who looked capable of Happiness
which was not the impression he normally
gave the otter she realized were an
offering to her in some way neither fish
nor flesh she murmured and then felt
embarrassed because she recall there was
something bardy about ff's description
of an otter although she wasn't quite
sure what the quotation vulgar or
otherwise was wasted on Perry who said
well certainly not a fish the European
otter lutra lutra is from the family
mustell which includes Badges and
weasels oh of course she said Juliet had
never seen otter before and the kits and
she knew that was the term for them
because he told her were Charming sleek
and playful but really they were just
otter and if he was going to give her
anything she' rather it was the picnic
that she'd expected him to bring a scene
in which the two characters are
essentially doing nothing but lying the
entire time she's also betrays her
obsession with food I realize there's a
great line in there too that Countryside
was more of a concept than a reality for
her she she's a town girl he's a
naturalist well she's a town girl but
she's also incredibly naive and ignorant
at this point at least in terms of of
sex completely she has no idea what it
entails which is part of the reason she
doesn't understand understand Perry's
you know true nature but she's um she's
read her mother's romantic novels and
that's about the limit of it so for her
it's this very Misty veiled act that's
will take place one day and she's hoping
it's going to take place with Perry what
about that passage why did you choose to
read that passage oh just because I
think it does introduce her a little bit
her her you know the fact that she does
just automatically give a different
answer to the reality and also she's
masking her ignorance as well of course
and he is completely oblivious to it all
the time so they are they constantly not
communicating with each other for the
whole of the novel until the very end
when finally they do communicate in a
very touching way I think yeah I thought
one of the sweetest kind of passages in
the in the novel you recently mentioned
on this book tour I think on the UK leg
that your next book will be another
Jackson broy novel this is true I
finished it I've never been on tour with
a book when I finished the next one it's
very odd feeling I keep thinking did I
read finish I really get confused about
which book you're talking about because
yes because this yes because my thoughts
aren't even with the Jackson book I've
just finished there with the next book
I'll be writing so it is very confusing
then people talk about books a couple of
books ago and I can't remember
characters names or anything so yeah
your your head is always full of the
book you're writing so the next book is
the Jackson Brody coming out in 2019 yes
this time next year well now that you
said that there's another book after
that can I ask what that one's about no
that's a secret all right next time next
time we get you in our studio Kate thank
you so much for being here oh I thank
you so much for asking me those were our
interviews with sartha Mukerji from 2016
and Kate Atkinson from 2018 we'll have
more from the book review podcast
archive next week I'm Gilbert Cruz thank
you for listening
[Music]